Everything was going quite fine…365 days…364 videos...and then we jumped based on
the digits in the expansion of Pi...that many
days we jumped.. What happened? After the
28th of April, we should've had one on the
1st of May. Why wasn't one launched? Why
didn't you ask about it? A short video about
it, today!
Namaste! Three Hundred and Ninety One! I was
telling you about the calendar and the date
we missed...well, this is what happened. On the
3rd, 7th, and the 13th of April, we launched the
episode as per schedule. On the
15th, I had an operation performed on my knee.
They call it ACL reconstruction. A ligament
was diagnosed as completely torn, and it needed
immediate intervention and I went in for a
surgery. We launched 15th, because I had pre-created
it; and then, you might have noticed, 21 and
25, I was actually standing with a walker.
Some people commented that I wasn't moving
around much in those two videos. My posture
was slightly skewed. Good catch! Yes, I struggled,
but I somehow still made those deadlines.
And then, we had 28. By which time, a
complication had started up in my knee and
I had to get myself readmitted and that's
why I did that from the hospital using a memoji..
I was wearing a hospital gown and I wasn't
shaven,...so, we tried this trick. But,
on the 30th, I went in for a second surgery,
they had to intervene and do some observations,
so, I was bedridden on the 30th. The thing
was, on 28th, I told myself, three days, three
days, third day from now, third day,…
I have an appointment, I have a Quotidian
coming up, and somewhere along the way, three
days, three days, third day from now, became,
yes, you guessed it, May 3rd; and... I missed
it. A year and five months of very regular,
proper discipline, just vanished, just like
that, poof!
I have heard of these circadian rhythms. They
are supposed to be your biology actually having
an internal clock...that is the reason for
example, why flowers open their buds just
in time when the sun rises…it is also why
bats sleep, and when it is night time, they
wake up without an alarm call. That is also
why, these days, many IT workers suffer because
of depression, because of PCOD, and so many
different complications...because they haven't
given respect to their circadian rhythm. Their
body clock not in sync with the clock of the
outside world. That's exactly what happened
to me. I was in that hospital bed...and there
was a small window to the side which I couldn't
walk to, there were no traffic sounds anyway,
sunlight and moonlight were both the same
because the shutters were drawn. Nothing
changed, every couple of hours a nurse came,
a nurse went, and I think that also contributed
to my missing of the calendar. The circadian
rhythm went kaput.
I, I was angry, I was upset, I even called
up my friends and I asked them… Hey, one
of you could have reminded me.. They commiserated
with me.. But, beyond that, they couldn't
say anything more, they didn't have anything
more to say! I mean, this is something that
I am doing. They are encouraging me along,
I could not complain beyond what I did that
day.
Another complication! A friend had put together
a Quotidian Calendar for 2022! A high-resolution
image, beautifully laying out what has been
completed, what's pending, what's coming up
next, etc! Only last week did I realise, there
was a big bug in the calendar too! Take a
look at this! Every month has 31 days! February
too! April too!! So, yes, I missed the day,
but there have been some circumstances which
led me to what happened. Forgive me. I will
ensure this doesn't happen again.
My brother-in-law...he actually had one message
for me...when I said...I missed, I am devastated..
I am feeling so bad...I am filled with negative
energy now...when I was cribbing about it,
he had just one word...Kannaa! Prioritise!
Yes...correct advise perhaps. I am at the
hospital. A second surgery is looming, there has been a complication. To talk about "Quotidian" now...
won't it get us all riled up, said my family
members too! But, what happened afterwards?
It has been eight days since I missed that
day. You know what? I once again lost the
motivation temporarily. Does it really matter
at all? Why don't I just give up…? That
was when I was reminded of a famous quote
from Clayton Christensen, (we have encountered
this person earlier too), which went:- It
is easier to hold your principles 100% of
the time.. I won't change at all. I will do
it every day. I will do it consistently...
is easier…than doing it 98% of the time.
I will skip it just on the day of the surgery…
I won't do it only on days it rains…it
is so much harder to maintain a cadence like
that. And I experienced it first-hand. So,
guys, if you are trying something, if you
are putting a habit in place, perhaps swearing
not to eat non-vegetarian food, perhaps to
go on a run everyday, perhaps never to ever
speak a lie,…whatever interesting, useful
habit you are trying to inculcate…very
important piece of advice - don't go for that
98%. Go for 100% It is very very hard to claw
back after you fall.
That is when I encountered this book. When
time was bending, flexing, slipping, when
my clock and the world's clock were doing
a crazy unsynchronised dance, that is when
I encountered this book by Benjamin Hardy.
He is a famous YouTuber, famous author, motivational
speaker; I have read a few other books by
him. This man hit me with this book. Slipstream
Time Hacking is the name. How to create time,
live more, enhance happiness. Almost sounds
like snake oil. A panacea for all diseases!
In fact, when I read the introduction to the
book, it talked about Dr. Albert Einstein,
it talked about science fiction, it talked
about movies, it talked about God! It talked
about four completely different subjects…
but, I was at the hospital, and I was able
to complete reading the book. And I am really
thankful that I had this opportunity to read
this book. I learned quite a few interesting
things, and the next Quotidian, due tomorrow,
I am going to dedicate to this book and the
learnings I have from it. Let us meet tomorrow!
Let us surely meet tomorrow! But, before that,
we need a closing thought, don't we?
My closing thought is just this. If you are
a creator, remember that creativity is essentially
a very lonely art. Something done all by yourself.
Don't expect support. Don't expect encouragement.
Don't expect reminders. Don't expect contributions.
It is a lonely struggle, he says. It is, in
reality, the ability to reach inside yourself
and drag forth from your very soul, an idea..
says this famous artist - Lou Dorfsman.
I completely agree. Because, you see, I have
a YouTube channel, most of us are connected
via Whatsapp, but not a single one of you
wondered when the next episode was...nine
days have gone by…it has never been delayed
by such a long period…even if you didn't
know we were bouncing along like Pi, did even
one of you raise the fundamental question?
None of you did...this makes me a little sad…anyway,
tomorrow is a fresh day! Let us meet! Thanks!